#### 1.1.2.2 Research scientist vs. research engineer

There’s much confusion about the role of a research engineer. This is a rare role, often seen at major research labs in the industry. Loosely speaking, if the role of a research scientist is to come up with original ideas, the role of a research engineer is to use their engineering skills to set up and run experiments for these ideas. The research scientist role typically requires a Ph.D. and/or first author papers at top-tier conferences. The research engineer role doesn’t, though publishing papers always helps.

For some teams, there’s no difference between a research scientist and a research  engineer. Research scientists should, first and foremost, be engineers. Both research scientists and engineers come up with ideas and implement those ideas. A researcher might also act as an advisor guiding research engineers in their own research. It’s not uncommon to see research scientists and research engineers be equal contributors to papers[^7]. The different job titles are mainly a product of bureaucracy -- research scientists are supposed to have bigger academic clout and are often better paid than research engineers.

Startups, to attract talents, might be more generous with the job titles. A candidate told me he chose a startup over a FAAAM company because the startup gave him the title of a research scientist, while that big company gave him the title of a research engineer.

Akihiro Matsukawa gave an interesting perspective on the difference between the research scientist and the research engineer with his post: [Research Engineering FAQs](https://mtskw.com/posts/re/).

[^7]:
     Notable examples include “_[Attention Is All You Need](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.03762)_” from Google and “_[Language Models are Unsupervised Multitask Learners](https://d4mucfpksywv.cloudfront.net/better-language-models/language_models_are_unsupervised_multitask_learners.pdf)_” from OpenAI.