#### 8.2.4 Recommendation systems

In companies that distribute content, goods or advertisements, the recommendation system is a core tool to retain and monetize your user base.

Here are some questions that are useful for preparing for a role focused on building and maintaining a recommendation system.

1. Overall
    1. [E] How do large-scale recommendation systems work?
    2. [E] What are some product requirements you want to clarify before building a recommendation system?
    3. [E] How do you decide whether to recommend items in real-time, or in batches?
    4. [H] Design a recommendation system for my startup that is starting to get user traction.
    5. [H] Describe one improvement you want to make on a existing large-scale recommendation system, and how would you test the improvement.

2. Ranking
    1. [E] What are some features that can be used for ranking in recommendation systems?
    2. [E] What models should you use for ranking in recommendation systems?
    3. [M] What are some factors deciding whether calibration is important for a ranking model?
    4. [M] What are some ways to calibrate a model?
    5. [E] How do you evaluate whether your recommendation system ranking model is stale?
    6. [M] How do you decide how often should you retrain your recommendation system ranking models?
    7. [H] What are some recent advances in the ranking algorithms for recommendation systems?

3. Candidate retrieval
    1. [E] What are some ways to retrieve candidates in a recommendation system?
    2. [E] How do you generate embeddings with matrix factorization?
    3. [M] How do you generate embeddings with a two tower model?
    4. [M] What is the advantage of using a two tower model over matrix factorization to generate embeddings?
    5. [M] What are some features that are used for training a two tower model?
    6. [H] How do you conduct negative sampling for a two tower model?
    7. [H] What are some recent advances in candidate retrieval in recommendation systems?

4. Filtering and Constraints
    1. [E] Why is filtering done after candidate retrieval, and before ranking?
    2. [E] What is a bloom filter and how does it work?
    3. [M] What are some issues with recommending items with the highest probability of positive actions? How do we resolve these issues?

5. A/B Testing
    1. [M] How do you run an A/B test to determine the effect of a recommendation system algorithm change on content consumers?
    2. [H] How do you run an A/B test to determine the effect of a recommendation system algorithm change on content creators?

6. Cold start problem
    1. [E] What is the user cold start problem in recommendation systems, and what can be done to address it?
    2. [M] What is the content cold start problem in recommendation systems, and what can be done to address it?
